## `deps.zig` Reference
This file is generated by [`zigmod fetch`](commands/fetch.md) or [`zigmod ci`](commands/ci.md) and is an amalgamation of all of the sources and dependencies used in this project. Many of the fields listed here align with fields present in [`zig.mod`](zig.mod.md) but contain those values for the entire dependency tree.

### `cache`
- Type: `[]const u8`
The relative path root to which all dependency sources are saved. Currently always `.zigmod/deps`.

### `addAllTo`
- Type: `pub fn (exe: *std.build.LibExeObjStep) void`
A helper function to add all of the packages, C files, and system libraries to the passed exectuable. It will also automatically link libC in the event that any C files are found in the dependency tree.

### `_ids`
- Type: `[][]const u8`
A comptime-known string array of all of the [ID's](zig.mod.md#id) used in this project.

### `_paths`
- Type: `[][]const u8`
A comptime-known string array of the source paths to each dependency relative to `cache`.

### `package_data`
- Type: `struct<ID, std.build.Pkg>`
This is a meta struct that associates ID's to their relavant `std.build.Pkg` initialization, complete with sub-packages and all.

### `packages`
- Type: `[]std.build.Pkg`
This is a an array of all of the items in `package_data`, but able to be referenced by index, rather than package ID.

### `pkgs`
- Type: `struct<NAME, std.build.Pkg>`
This is a struct that associates the package name to the relavant `std.build.Pkg`. The only packages listed are the dependencies of the root project. Additionally, the data here can be referenced to use dependencies at build time in `build.zig` through importing the path of the project like so:
```zig
const deps = @import("./deps.zig");
const my_dev_dep = @import(deps.pkgs.my_dev_dep.path);
```

### `c_include_dirs`
- Type: `[][]const u8`
An ensembled list of all the `c_include_dirs` lists.

### `c_source_flags`
- Type: `struct<ID, []const u8>`
An ensembled list of all the `c_source_flags` lists.

### `c_source_files`
- Type: `[][2][]const u8`
An ensembled list of all the `c_source_files` lists.

### `system_libs`
- Type: `[][]const u8`
An ensembled list of all the `system_libs` lists.
